Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, without a doubt the most important development
in Washington and in the world is the decision of President Eisenhower and premier Nikita
Kruzschtov to exchange visits in September and this fall. When this was announced it
precipitated a flood of speculation all the way from full approval of the idea to
outright opposition and indignation. Some feel that this country is letting down the
people of the free nations who have sided with us against the threat of communism. Some
other people argue that people in the captive nations behind the iron curtain will feel
that they have been abandoned and forgotten about with this new show of friendship. There
is also concern that some incident might happen to Mr. Kruzschtov when he was here that would
make tensions worse rather than easing them. We are all fully aware of these viewpoints,
but I have faith in the sound, common sense and judgment of our people. I do not think
that Mr. Kruzschtov's visit to this country will pull the eyes over any of our people. I
do think that this is a chance to show Mr. Kruzschtov the prosperity and the strength of America
and that it might give him a second sobering thought if he is laboring under any idea about
our material strength or our spiritual stamina. I think that people of all nations of the world
are acutely concerned with a nuclear threat that hangs over our heads. Our nation will spend
more than $40 billion this year for missiles, for defense, for powdering, for guns. We would
like to, we simply cannot go on with this kind of military expenditure. We would like to use
some of this money for other and good social things, hospital schools and things that our
people need. And the Cold War requires Russia to divert tremendous outlays from its economic
development and to support of its large military commitments. The vision of destruction and death
at a nuclear attack and counterattack would mean is a sober and terrifying one. The cold,
hard fact is that there is no alternative to peace and this becomes more a more indescapable
conclusion every day. Any avenue that can turn Premier Kruzschiff and the world away from the
deadly march toward war is an avenue that we must and that we ought to explore. His visit to the
United States and President Eisenhower's visit to the Soviet Union is that maybe one of these
ways to turn the, turn the thoughts of the people of the world to other avenues and it's one
that ought to be explored. You will note that the President intends to visit with the leaders of
Western Europe before he goes to Moscow. And I think this is good. They naturally have a great
many anxieties that he might, that some agreement might be made that would bind them, that they were not
not advised of. And of course any major policy decision must be made in conjunction with our
loyal allies of the West. After all this is a new course for the United States and for the world.
And it should be explained to our allies and to the friends that we have in the non-committed
nations of the world before any step is taken. And no great settlement I don't think is going to
come from the exchange of visits of President Eisenhower and Mr. Kruzschiff. Such cannot result in
independent action without the participation of our allies. But if nothing more results than
the easing of tension and the relaxation of difficulties generated over the Berlin crisis,
certainly we can say that some progress has been made. As long as we are talking, we are not
fighting and we are not dying. And so I welcome the opportunity. Our people now have of showing Mr.
Kruzschiff our wonderful country and what we have here in the United States. And I have suggested to
the President that Mr. Kruzschiff's list of American visits include the Tennessee Valley Authority
region where he was the refined example of democracy and action and I know personally that he's
interested. Also that he go to Nashville and see the state capital and hear the grand old
operating visit the Hermitage. That's all for now. Thank you very much.